= This is the Readme doc for Ministers Under the Influence

It describes the system dependencies and how to set up the project

== Dependencies

1. Ruby version at least 2.2.2, it was developed in Ruby 2.3.1
2. Postgresql (this is included on the vagrant machine)

  sudo apt-get -y install postgresql

You will need to create a user in Postgresql for the Rails app to connect as:

  sudo su postgres
  createuser -s mutiuser
  exit

== Setup

Ideally you should have RVM (Ruby Version Manager) set up, this will
recognise two files in the root directory

1. +.ruby-version+
2. +.ruby-gemset+

and prompt you to build the correct version of Ruby. It'll go and get
the files it needs and install everything for you.

To get RVM onto your system go to https://rvm.io/rvm/install and
follow the instructions.

If you're using system Ruby, in say a Vagrant box then you'll have to
get the right version and install it yourself.

Once you've done that, +cd+ into the Rails root directory. If you're
using RVM, +cd+-ing into the directory will create an RVM configuration.

Then run these commands:

  gem install bundler

That installs a utility to bundle the gems (Ruby shared libraries)
together for the project.

  bundle

That calls the utility, which reads a list of gem dependencies from
+Gemfile+, and fetches those gems from https://rubygems.org and
Github.

Once that's done you're nearly ready to create the database and set up
the data structure.

1. You need to let Rails know what username and password to use to
   connect to your PostgreSQL database. Assuming you've set up a user
   with permission to create databases. Go to +RAILS_ROOT/config/+,
   copy +database.yml.example+ to +database.yml+, and edit as required.

For example, if you created a user 'mutiuser' with no password edit the two lines like so:

  username: mutiuser
  password:

2. Within the same directory, copy +secrets.yml.example+ to
   +secrets.yml+ and add your own secrets. You can get new secrets by
   typing +bundle exec rake secret+ on the command line.

Once you've got +database.yml+ and +secrets.yml+ in place and
configured then run

  bundle exec rake db:setup

This will create the databases for each Rails environment,
development, test, staging and production. As you'll be using
development and test these are the only ones you need to be concerned
with.

Then run

  bundle exec rake

This will copy the data structure into the test database and run the
RSpec tests. You'll see a few pending tests, which you can safely
ignore.

Then it runs Cucumber smoke test to see that the basic web site it
working. Running the Cucumber smoke test might fail if

a. You're running inside Vagrant
b. You don't have Firefox configured on your system

If Rspec spec tests pass then ignore the Cucumber failures and run

  bundle exec rails db:seed

This will seed the development database with data extracted from some
of the ministerial meetings csv files.

And finally type (if running directly on your laptop):

  bundle exec rails s

or, if running from within the vagrant machine:

  bundle exec rails s -b 0.0.0.0

This will start up Rails on port 3000 so go to
{h\ttp://localhost:3000}[http://localhost:3000], or h\ttp://\{ip-address
of the vagrant box\}:3000.

If you want rails to start on a different port, e.g. because you're
using node on port 3000, then start with

  bundle exec rails s -p 3001

or whatever port number you want.

== Troubleshooting

=== no password supplied

If you receive the following error when trying to create the database:

  fe_sendauth: no password supplied
  Couldn't create database for {"adapter"=>"postgresql", "encoding"=>"unicode", "pool"=>5, "username"=>"mutiuser", "password"=>nil, "host"=>"localhost", "database"=>"meetings_development"}
  rake aborted!
  PG::ConnectionBad: fe_sendauth: no password supplied

Update the user in Postgres to have a password set.

  sudo su postgres
  psql
  alter user mutiuser with password 'mutiuserpassword';
  exit

Remember to update the database.yml file as well:

  password: mutiuserpassword

Then re-run the database creation command.

=== encoding "UTF8" does not match locale "en_US"

If you receive the following error when trying to create the database:

  PG::InvalidParameterValue: ERROR:  encoding "UTF8" does not match locale "en_US"
  DETAIL:  The chosen LC_CTYPE setting requires encoding "LATIN1".
  : CREATE DATABASE "meetings_development" ENCODING = 'unicode'
  Couldn't create database for {"adapter"=>"postgresql", "encoding"=>"unicode", "pool"=>5, "username"=>"mutiuser", "password"=>"mutiuserpassword", "host"=>"localhost", "database"=>"meetings_development"}
  rake aborted!
  ActiveRecord::StatementInvalid: PG::InvalidParameterValue: ERROR:  encoding "UTF8" does not match locale "en_US"
  DETAIL:  The chosen LC_CTYPE setting requires encoding "LATIN1".

Run the following commands to update Postgres:

  sudo su postgres
  psql
  update pg_database set datistemplate=false where datname='template1';
  drop database Template1;
  create database template1 with owner=postgres encoding='UTF-8' lc_collate='en_US.utf8' lc_ctype='en_US.utf8' template template0;
  update pg_database set datistemplate=true where datname='template1';

Then re-run the database creation command.